--- 
layout: post
title: The Road to Abundance
categories: farming
date: 2011-05-01 18:00:00
published: false
---

> Nature is not perfect, and there is no reason to assume that she was meant to meet our specifications. After all, Nature did not undertake any tests to determine whether the dyes she produces would be sufficiently resistent to soaps and detergents, whether the fibers she produces are those best fit for clothing purposes, or whether the grains, roots , and fruits of her different plants contain an adequate supply of carbohydrates, fats, proteins, vitamins and minerals to meet our dietary requirements. The purposes for which we use these natural products have nothing in common with the function they play in the life of the plant. Therefore, even the worshipers of nature should not feel offended if we draw the logical conclusion that no natural product, barring exceptions due to pure coincidence, can ever be good enough for the purposes for which we use it. (p18)
> ...
> The natural thing is to use synthetics which are specially made for our purposes and therefore meet all our requirements. (p19)

> Natural food, however, happens to be a mixture of chemicals with nothing unusual about them. What is more, these chemicals were never created or designed for human consumption as food. The starch of the potato is meant by nature to be a food reservoir for the potato plant, not the human stomach; the milk of the cow meant for calves, not the human beings; and there are no signs that nature created cattle for the purpose of being slaughtered by men. There is, therefore, nothing profoundly natural about our eating natural food. (p33)

> It is high time to remove the cloak of holiness from natural foods, and see them for what they are: a poorly assorted mixture of chemicals containing a large amount of indigestible materials, and certain proportion of materials injurious to our health. This mixture has been, unfortunately, indispensable for our nutrition, since we have been unable up to now to obtain the chemicals required by our organism in a form entirely digestible and devoid of poison. (p36)

> It is therefore important to dispel this association of synthetic food with pills and tablets, and convince gourmets and epicures that they have nothing to fear from the advent of synthetic food. The enjoyment of food is determined by its taste, smell, texture, and appearance. Nature has no monopoly on any of these qualities. As a matter of fact, most natural foods when they reach our tables do not have the taste, smell, texture of appearance of the raw material from which they are prepared. It is a far cry from the raw beef lung to frankfurters, from a live pig to ham and bacon, from wheat grains to Danish pastry, from cow's milk to American cheese, from beets to sugar, from hops and barley to beer, from rye grains to whisky. We might as well admin that there are few natural products which we can consume without modifying them to make them digestible and tasty. (p36)

> Once the individual synthesis of the carbohydrate, proteins, and fats is achieved, the bondage that chained mankind to the plant will be broken. The result will be the greatest revolution in history since man learned how to make fire. Hundreds of millions of hard-working farmers and farm workers will be replaced by chemical machinery. The surface of our earth will be freed from its dedication to food production. A new way of life will emerge. Crowded cities will disappear, and the earth will be transformed into a Garden of Eden. Notions like "hunger," "food problems," and "overpopulation" will become things belonging to a past barbaric age. Freedom from fear and freedom from want in their full sense can only be achieved through Freedom from the Plant. (p57)  

> Our industrial sewers, chimneys, and smokestacks are tremendously rich "mines", the exploitation of which is never seriously contemplated by our present wasteful and extravagant society. Instead of a blessing, our industrial wastes are transformed into a curse: they poison the air, blacken the sky, contaminate the water of our rivers. We are accustomed to consider them as a necessary evil, as a price that we have to pay for the privilege of having an industry. There will not be any industrial wastes in a chemistic society. Chimneys, smokestacks, and industrial sewers will be a thing of the past. Not one single material which is now considered "waste" is really useless. It is poured down the drain, or allowed to escape through the chimney, only because a given plant considers its exploitation uneconomical or lacks the facilities or the know-how to exploit it. (p76)
...
> But when the price collapsed due to overproduction, manufacturers who wanted to stay in the DDT business had to devise means to utilize the spent acid. A method was soon worked out permitting a complete recovery of the monochlorobenzene from this "waste product". This tale has a very general significance. Whenever a manufacturer feels that he can afford to ditch waste materials, it means that the price of his manufactured product is higher than it should be. The saying "waste not, want not" was never more true than in the case of industrial wastes. The major part of our natural resources winds up as scrap, refuse, sewage, and smoke, from which they could be recovered, should be recovered, and will be recovered in a chemistic society. (p78)
